DOCS-8686 Workday 12.1  ETA 8/31 (#957)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: workday/12.1/modules/ROOT/pages/workday-connector-studio.adoc

= Workday - Studio Configuration - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::workday/workday-studio.adoc, connectors::workday/workday-connector-studio.adoc

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure an input source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.

> When you run the connector, you can view the app log, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.

Reviewer: Should we add WHY the audience would want or need to do this?
(I know this is templated...but I can't stop from thinking about alternatives.)

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure an Input Source

An input source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these input sources to use with Workday Connector:

* On Modified Objects +
Starts your app when an object is created, modified, or deleted in Workday.
* HTTP Listener +
Starts your app using a browser or a command such as `curl`.
* Scheduler +
Starts your app at specified timed intervals.

To configure an *On Modified Objects* input source:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Workday > On Modified Objects*.
. Drag *On Modified Objects* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *On Modified Objects* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Enter the required information for the following fields:
* *Object type* 
* *Scheduling Strategy* +
Tells the source how it can poll the data. This field accepts two options:
** *Fixed Frequency*
+
Polls for data at a specified number of milliseconds, seconds, minutes, hours, or days. The default is 1000 milliseconds.
** *Cron*
+

> Accepts an expression that polls for data based on a filter, such as, every Monday in a month at a given time. See xref:mule-runtime::scheduler-concept.adoc#cron-expressions[Cron Expressions] for examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accepts an expression that polls for data based on a filter, such as every Monday in a month at a given time. See xref:mule-runtime::scheduler-concept.adoc#cron-expressions[Cron Expressions] for examples.
```

To add an operation for Workday Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Workday* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas to the right of the input source.

Each Workday operation has its own required fields in Anypoint Studio. For more information, see
the xref:workday-reference.adoc[Connector Reference].

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element

When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials the connector uses to access the target Workday system. 

To configure the global element for Workday Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the name of the connector in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, configure the authentication for the connector:
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===

> |Field |Description

Reviewer: I want to try to format the Description column to follow bullet-list formatting rules, so that we can standardize to fragments optionally followed by sentence in a new para. See below.

> |Configuration Name |The name of the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Configuration Name |Name of the configuration
```

> |Connection |The connection associated with the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Connection |Connection associated with the configuration
```

|Username |Username to log in to Workday with
|Password |Password that corresponds to the username 

> |Tenant Name | Workday Tenant ID, which usually has the suffix `pt1` appended to it, such as `acme_pt1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Tenant Name | Workday Tenant ID, which usually has the suffix `pt1` appended to it, such as `acme_pt1` + 
This parameter supports expressions, which allow the value of the parameter to change dynamically. For example, you can use an expression to create a multitenant connection.
```

> This parameter supports expressions, which allow the value of the parameter to change dynamically. For example, you can use an expression to create a multi-tenant connection.

Reviewer: See above.

> |Host Name | Host name of one of Workday’s cloud servers. The default value is: `impl-cc.workday.com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Host Name | Host name of one of Workday’s cloud servers + 
The default value is `impl-cc.workday.com`.
```

|===
+
You can reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended), or you can enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties. For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].
+
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server. +
To validate connectivity using the *Test Connection* button, Workday Connector uses an Identity_Management WSDL service with the `Get_Workday_Account_Signons_Request` operation. You must ensure that your service account has permissions to operate on that service. 
. Click *OK*.

[[view-app-log]]
== View the App Log

You can view the app log as follows:

* If you’re running the app from Anypoint Platform, the output is visible in the Anypoint Studio console window.
* If you’re running the app using Mule from the command line, the app log is visible in your OS console.

> Unless the log file path was customized in the app’s log file (`log4j2.xml`), you can view the app log in this default location: `MULE_HOME/logs/<app-name>.log`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless the log file path is customized in the app’s log file (`log4j2.xml`), you can view the app log in the default location `MULE_HOME/logs/<app-name>.log`.
```

== Next Step

> After configuring Workday Connector in Studio, see the xref:workday-connector-examples.adoc[Examples] for financial management use cases that demonstrate the use of this connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After configuring Workday Connector in Studio, see the xref:workday-connector-examples.adoc[Examples] text for financial management use cases that demonstrate how to use this connector.
```

. On the *On Modified Objects* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Enter the required information for the following fields:
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Studio Field |Description
|Connector configuration |Global Element Properties configuration name
|Object type |One of: `ABSENCE_INPUTS`, `ACADEMIC_CONTACTS`, `ALL_CURRENCIES`, `APPLICANTS`, `BASIC_CUSTOMERS`, `CANDIDATES`, `CERTIFICATION_ISSUERS`, `CERTIFICATIONS`, `COMPETENCIES`, `DEGREES`, `DONORS`, `EDUCATION_TEST_RESULTS`, `EDUCATIONAL_INSTITUTION_COURSE`, `HEALTH_CARE_RATES`, `INVESTORS`, `ORGANIZATIONS`, `PAYMENTS`, `PROGRAMS_OF_STUDY`, `STUDENTS`, `STUDENTS_APPLICATIONS`, `WORKERS`
|Scheduling Strategy a|Tells the source how it can poll the data. This field accepts two options:

* *Fixed Frequency* +
Polls for data at a specified number of milliseconds, seconds, minutes, hours, or days. The default is 1000 milliseconds.
* *Cron* +
Accepts an expression that polls for data based on a filter, such as every Monday in a month at a given time. See xref:mule-runtime::scheduler-concept.adoc#cron-expressions[Cron Expressions] for examples.

> |Username |The username to log in with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This should not be mentioned here as it is part of the configuration.

> |Password |The corresponding password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This should not be mentioned here as it is part of the configuration.

> |Tenant Name |The Workday tenant ID, which usually has the suffix `_pt1` appended to it, such as `acme_pt1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This should not be mentioned here as it is part of the configuration.

|Tenant Name |Enter the Workday Tenant ID, which usually has the suffix `pt1` appended to it, such as `acme_pt1`.
This parameter supports expressions, which allow the value of this parameter to change dynamically. For example, you can use an expression to create a multi-tenant connection.
|Username |Enter the username to log in with.
|Password |Enter the corresponding password.
|===

[[x509-authentication]]
=== x.509 Authentication

Enter the following information on the *General* tab of the *Global Element Properties* screen to configure X.509 authentication:

[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field |Description
|Host Name |Enter the host name of one of Workday’s Cloud Servers. Default value: `impl-cc.workday.com`.
|Tenant Name |Enter the Workday Tenant ID, which usually has the suffix `pt1` appended to it, such as `acme_pt1`.
This parameter supports expressions, which allow the value of this parameter to change dynamically. For example, you can use an expression to create a multi-tenant connection.
|Username |Enter the username to log in with.
|Key Store Path |The location of the key store file.
|Type |The type of the key store.

> |Password |The password to access the store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Password |The password to access the key store.
```
